.. :changelog:

Release History
===============

0.4.2 (2020-06-26)
------------------
Added
+++++
- Save full-res coherence files to disk in ``conv2tif`` step if ``cohmask = 1``.
- Save multi-looked coherence files to disk in ``prepifg`` step if ``cohmask = 1``.
- Additional ``DATA_TYPE`` geotiff header metadata for above coherence files.
- ``conv2tif`` and ``prepifg`` output files have a tag applied to filename dependent
  on data type, i.e. ``_ifg.tif``, ``_coh.tif``, ``_dem.tif``.
- Metadata about used reference pixel is added to interferogram geotiff headers:
  lat/lon and x/y values; mean and standard deviation of reference window samples.
- Quicklook PNG and KML files are generated for the ``Stack Rate`` error map by default.

Changed
+++++++
- Bugfix: ensure ``prepifg`` treats input data files as `read only`.
- Bugfix: fix the way that the reference phase is subtracted from interferograms
  during ``process`` step.
- Bugfix: manual entry of ``refx/y`` converted to type ``int``.
- User supplies latitude and longitude values when specifying a reference pixel in
  the config file. Pixel x/y values are calculated and used internally.
- Move ``Stack Rate`` masking to a standalone function ``pyrate.core.stack.mask_rate``,
  applied during the ``merge`` step and add unit tests.
- Skip ``Stack Rate`` masking if threshold parameter ``maxsig = 0``.
- Provide log message indicating the percentage of pixels masked by 
  ``pyrate.core.stack.mask_rate``.
- Refactor ``pyrate.core.stack`` module; expose two functions in documentation:
  i) single pixel stacking algorithm, and
  ii) loop function for processing full ifg array.
- Refactor ``pyrate.merge`` script; remove duplicated code and create reusable
  generic functions.
- Colourmap used to render quicklook PNG images is calculated from min/max values of
  the geotiff band.
- Updated ``test`` and ``dev`` requirements.

Removed
+++++++
- Deprecate unused functions in ``pyrate.core.config`` and corresponding tests.
- Static colourmap ``utils/colourmap.txt`` that was previously used to render
  quicklook PNG images is removed. 

0.4.1 (2020-05-19)
------------------
Added
+++++
- Python 3.8 support.
- Algorithm to automatically calculate rows and columns for tiling.
  User no longer specifies these as part of the CLI, but can optionally
  specify ``rows`` and ``cols`` in the configuration file.
- Improvements to the test suite, including systems-wide tests.
- Improved logging.

Changed
+++++++
- ``Linear Rate`` algorithm has been renamed ``Stack Rate``.
- User supplies full paths to input files in respective file lists.
- All files generated by `PyRate` saved to user-defined ``outdir`` directory.
- Fixed a bug in how NaNs are handled during coherence masking and multi-looking.
  Output rasters will contain ``nan`` as the nodata value.
- Fixed bug in resampling/multi-looking when coherence masking is used.
  This bugfix will result in significantly fewer ``nan`` pixels in the outputs.
- Renamed ``slcfilelist`` parameter to ``hdrfilelist``.
- Log files are generated in the ``outdir`` and every `PyRate` step produces independent log files.

Removed
+++++++
- Deprecate the use of ``obsdir``, ``slcfiledir`` and ``cohdir`` configuration variables.
- Deprecate ``parallel = 2`` option; splitting image via rows for parallelisation.

0.4.0 (2019-10-31)
------------------
Added
+++++
- Python 3.7 support.
- Optional ``conv2tif`` step.
- Building of docs integrated with Travis CI.
- Coherence masking, view coherence masking section in ``input_parameters.conf``
  for options.
- Input parameter validation.
- SLC and coherence file lists for file discovery.
- Create quick view png for rate map product.
- Add support for reading interferogram in Geotiff format.
- Add detailed validation and hints for configuration parameters
- Add system tests for all 3 types of input formats

Changed
+++++++
- ``linrate`` step has been renamed to ``process``.
- ``postprocess`` step has been renamed to ``merge``.
- ``converttogeotiff`` step has been renamed to ``conv2tif``.
- CLI structure: config files now need to be provided with ``-f`` flag.
- Reduced console output, default verbosity setting is now ``INFO``.
- Restructure of code layout, src modules now in ``PyRate/pyrate/core`` directory
  and scripts at ``PyRate/scripts``.
- Reference pixel values are expected to be in latitude and longitude values.

Removed
+++++++
- Unused luigi code.
- References to Matlab.
- Unused tests for legacy api.

0.3.0 (2019-07-26)
------------------
Added
+++++
- ``utils/apt_install.sh`` script that lists Ubuntu/apt package requirements.
- ``utils/load_modules.sh`` script that sets up NCI Raijin HPC environment.

Fixed
+++++
- Errors being caused by newer version of ``networkx``; v2.3 now supported.

Removed
+++++++
- Unused Python and OS packages.
- environment.yml - conda env will now be installed using ``requirements.txt``.
- HPC directory - hpc README.rst moved to docs.
- setup.cfg - no longer needed.
- Luigi functionality - hasn't been operational and is reported as vulnerable.
  Single machine parallelism is achieved with joblib. 

Changed
+++++++
- Requirements now managed by ``requirements.txt`` file, parsed by ``setup.py``.
- Requirements now split across base ``requirements.txt`` and separate files
  for dev (``requirements-dev.txt``) and testing (``requirements-test.txt``).
- Moved default config files to top level source directory.
- Pinned Python dependencies to specific versions.
- Travis build now installs GDAL from apt.
- Travis only builds on master, develop and \*-travis branches.
- Consolidated documentation into ``PyRate/docs``.
- Updated install instructions for Ubuntu and NCI.

0.2.0 (2017-05-22)
------------------
- Stable beta release.

0.1.0 (2017-01-31)
------------------
- First release on PyPI.
